>> Bianca: Let's talk about removeChild.
DId anyone get to it?
How did you remove it?
>> Speaker 2: I just rendered the children
and checked the children's values,
whatever value we're passing.
>> Bianca: And you just removed it, cool.
So deleting trees can
be really interesting,
because what if you delete
a node in the middle?
So what if you have a child
that has children like this?
So what if we wanted to delete 7, right?
How would we want to handle that?
So, in this case, if we deleted 7,
then we would delete the entire sub-tree.
Which is fine, we just need to
know that's what we're doing.
Other ways that we could do
it is we could take the 7,
replace it with something else.
There might be rules for your tree.
Right now, our trees are free-spirited
trees, they can do whatever they want.
But a lot of trees have rules and
structures that they need to follow and so
the exit policy matters.
And you might imagine, deleting entire
subtrees might be really bad for
some things, but
it could be really good for other things.
React will just delete the whole
subtree and re-render the DOM.
And it's an optimization
because you'll see that
the deleting nodes is a little quirky.
It's a little weird.
There are a lot of edge cases.
So I'm just gonna leave it question mark
for you just to start thinking about it.
And we'll talk about
removing nodes from trees.
Actually, it's the very
last thing that we do.
We're gonna talk about deleting
from a binary search tree.
But just know,
you can set the children to that space,
you can splice it out, however you want
to delete something from an array.
All right, I set it to undefined which
is kind of weird, but you could,
you could splice it,
you can create a new array without it.
Which is kinda like splicing it,
but it's for the immutable people,
if you're into that.
Yeah, cool.
So inserting into a tree
is constant time, why?
>> Speaker 2: We're just inserting
the new node at the end of the array?
>> Bianca: Yeah, so thinking back
to our linear data structure when
we talked about pushing values
to the end of an array constant.
And there's nothing else in here that
is really noteworthy of an activity.
So let's talk about what makes an activity
noteworthy for time complexity analysis.
It's anything like if you see something
with loops, that's important.
Any array, array methods can be tricky,
all these native methods under
the hood might secretly have a loop.
Recursion is another one.
Instantiating a class, no big deal.
We're just creating an object that's going
to be negligible, returning negligible.
Yeah, so we'll go through and we'll keep
talking about what we
should be looking out for.
Any questions?
All right.
>> Speaker 3: How do we know what is
on the left and the right of the tree?
>> Speaker 3: Or how do we know what
child is on the left or the right?
>> Bianca: I guess my first question is
why does it matter if it's the left or
the right, but I mean,
the concept of having a left or
a right comes from a binary tree and
this is just a regular tree, so
it doesn't really matter for this.
But if you wanted to do a left or
right, we gonna talk about that next.
Because our chat bot is really a binary
tree because we have yes and no, right?
Instead of left or right,
we have yes or no.
And then we're gonna get
really serious about left and
right with our binary search tree,
which is kind of an evolution of that.
>> Speaker 4: So you're saying to
remove that tree is constant or
to move a node is constant?
Is that what you're saying?
>> Bianca: It depends on how you do it.
>> Speaker 4: That's what I was wondeing.
>> Bianca: Yeah.
So if you're just setting 7 here
to null, that's constant.
You're just removing a reference.
You're just basically setting this null.
So this is just this 2
is now pointing null.
>> Speaker 4: But
don't you have to search for it?
>> Bianca: In these cases,
we have a reference to the child.
So this is like a removeChild on the tree,
it's gonna remove a child with that value.
Does that make sense?
Just like the insert, we have a reference.
But that's a good point, right?
If we have to start from the root
note it reverse to the tree,
which we will do later, it gets different,
the time complexity is gonna evolve.
And so this is why you can't just be like,
inserting the tree is this
time complexity, right?
It actually really matters how you're
inserting it and the kind of tree that
you're working with, so we just need
to be aware of all the factors.
>> Speaker 2: In this example,
when you're saying removeChild(value),
that value is actually a no or
it's not the value we had an insertChild.
So how I looked at that was you're asking,
like,
give me root of the child that
has this value as its value.
Meaning, I have to look at all
the children, I'm not just searching for
the value, I'm searching for
the thing having the value.
>> Bianca: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So the two arguments there,
the methods are congruent, so
the same kind of thing you're passing in.
So I'm not passing in the node
that contains 7, I'm passing in 7.
>> Bianca: Yeah, so you would loop for
the children array and find it.
But you wouldn't be looping through
that and the children's children,
like it's not-
>> Speaker 2: Not
transversing the whole tree.
>> Bianca: Yeah, exactly.
>> Speaker 2: So it's not linear, then?
>> Bianca: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so it's not constant?
>> Bianca: Yes.
Did I say it was constant?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
I thought it was, okay, yeah, okay.
>> Bianca: So the setting it is constant.
>> Speaker 2: Setting it, okay,
I see what you're saying.
>> Bianca: But
to get to it is gonna be linear for sure.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Bianca: Yeah, cool,
sorry if I misspoke.